In the previous lectures that we have been talking about a theoretical background for naive base algorithm
and let's check whether it is working fine or not.
So we are going to use the credit scoring data set as usual.
We have come to the conclusion that with logistic regression we can achieve 93 percent accuracy with
K nearest neighbor or classify or we are able to achieve approximately 98 percent accuracy.
And let's see whether we are able to do better or with the help of naive base classifier we are going
to use the same features.
So incom age and loan we are going to use the same target for valuable 0 or 1 0 for the fourth and one
event the client is able to pay back the loan.
We are going to use train to split.
So we will use a training data set and that past data set we 0.3.
What does it mean 70 percent of the original data set is for the training and 30 percent of the original
dataset is for testing.
OK.
What's very important that we are going to use this go zijn and B what does it mean.
It is the secret.
Now is this class a failure.
And it is the Gaussian naïve base classifier implementation.
What does it mean exactly.
There's a good article on Wikipedia.
So if you search for a naive base classifier you can take a closer look at this example.
So let's suppose the problem here we would like to classify whether a given person is a male or female
based on the measured features.
There's going to be three features haith way and the food size and Dozier naive Bazy implementation
have the assumption that these features are normally distributed hence the name Gaussian Navy base.
So the hate parameter has Gosia a normal distribution.
The wait feature has goes the normal distribution and it is true for the food size as well.
And why is it important.
Because we are able to calculate the probability who better the actual sample is a male or female but
then we have to calculate the probability of a given feature.
In this case the hate given an output class in this case we have two output Klaas's male and female.
So we have to collate the probability of a given feature such as given an output Clauss such as male
and this is when we have to use the Gazi a normal distribution function.
This exponential function is the Gaussian normal distribution function.
And this is why we have the assumption that these features the hey the weight and the food size are
normally distributed because we have to use some formula in order to calculate these probabilities.
OK so here as well we will have the assumption read the half of Gaussian naïve based implementation
that these features income age and loan are normally distributed.
Ok lets take a look where its working fine or not.
OK the final accuracy is 93 percent which means that it is something like logistic regression as you
can see K nearest neighbor a classifier doesnt have any underlying model.
This is the simplest algorithm as far as machine learning is concern for now.
Algorithm we have lots of lot of assumptions as far as the probability distributions are concerned.
We have the assumption that the features are normally distributed.
So we have a rather complex model and this is the case for logistic regression as about we have a rather
complex model.
OK so it is quite counter-intuitive that nearest neighbor algorithm without any underlying model can
outperform logistic regression and naive base classifier approaches.
OK so the final accuracy is 93 percent.
But this is what we have been discussing in the previous lecture that the main advantage of naive base
classifier is that we can use it for tax classification and it is of working rather good when dealing
with sentiment and alliances and tax classification.
So this is what we are going to talk about in the next lectures.
Thanks for watching.